Welcome back in I have a challenge for you.
For this lesson.
So we're going to revisit our shopping list.
And this time what I want to do is I want to have a nice list here all done within the web page where
we've got an input here and whenever we type anything within the input then we can add value into our
list.
So basically it's building out all of these items that are available within the array.
And then it's looping through the items that are in the array.
And I would put them.
So this is two separate functions.
There's one function where we add the items into the array and then the second function is to put the
list.
And the challenge for this as well is I want you to make this to be to have as little global variables
as possible and have as many local variables in the functions as possible.
So go ahead.
Pause the video.
Take the starting file that I have here.
I've got the HD M-L covered so you don't have to do anything with the h him out and radioed the Javascript.
So this is going to be two functions to separate functions to build an array and then put that array.
So go ahead try open up your editor try it out and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So the first thing that we need for our solution is we need to create an array.
So this one has to be global because we're going to be using it across two different functions.
So we have no choice but to create our shopping list and keep it as a global variable.
So the next thing that we need to do is to create a function in order to add items.
So we see that we've already got the on click hooked up to a function called add item.
So we need to know that we need to set that function up.
So let's go ahead and set up a function and this function is called out item and we don't need to pass
any values or anything any arguments yet into here.
So next thing that I want to do is that I want to grab this value.
So I did say that we want to try to keep them as local as possible and if we have no use for the variables
outside of the function that we're using them in then we're not going to actually have them sitting
globally.
So we're not going to waste our global space and we're going to utilize all these functions locally.
So let's do that and we're going to grab that element by ID so Dokument get element by id and the element
that where grabbing is called item.
And for this when we actually go to get the value of that item.
So we're going to do that all within one statement.
So the next thing that we know we need to do is we've got the item value that's been entered into here
and we need to actually have it go into our shopping list array because right now the shopping list
is empty.
So let's push that value Zaremba with a raise.
What we want to add an item we simply do push.
So this is a built in function that's already built in to the array in Javascript.
So all we have to do is call to it.
So this is just like any other function where we pass in an argument and the argument that it's expecting
or that's waiting for is the value that I want to add into the array.
So doing that is building up our shopping list.
So now we've got our shopping list and we're adding a bunch of items into our shopping list.
So that was the first part of the challenge.
The second part of the challenge was putting that content within each team.
So for this one we're going to set up a separate function and we're going to simply call to it.
So whenever we've added and we updated our shopping list we're ready to output that list and sat see
a visible within the page.
So that means that we need to set up a function called output list.
And this is a global function because it's it's being invoked.
We don't have that within the function itself.
And this is also an option as well.
So if you actually put output list or whatever you called your function that's going to output the content.
If you put it within the add item that's correct as well and that's actually even better because then
you're keeping it locally.
But for now I'm going to keep it as a separate function.
But as I said it could very well be kept within the add item function as well.
So that would be correct as well to do it within that type of format.
So let's set up all of our variables and all of these variables are ones that we know we need to make
use of within our function.
So we need to also have that output.
So let's set that one up and notice that typically I've been setting up globally but because I only
need to have access to it within this one function there would be no need to have it globally.
So that's why it's being set up locally.
So just call it output and we're going to grab that value of that element output so that we can write
to it using our Javascript.
So next thing that we want to do is I'll set that up that we're output in or HMO.
And then we're going to equal that to whatever the value of each team Melas.
So now we've got one other step to do so we know that over here we've been building the shopping list.
We've been set up this blank array.
And as the users are adding items into the list they're adding into the array.
So we know that we've got an array with all of our items sitting in there.
So let's set up and let's loop through that array of variable x and really call that to zero.
And we're going to loop X while it's less than a shopping list length.
So that's how we get the length of the items in the array.
And let's increment X so now we're looping through the array.
So now it's the last part is to update this H2 Mel.
So we're going to increment add to that H2 male and I want to output it within this type of format as
well.
We have a numbered type format so we know that we've got the value of x.
It did started 0.
So we need to add 1 to x.
So we'll do that for the output only and not not in general that we're adding in the dot then concatenating
the shopping list item number this is an array.
So in order to get the contents out of that array that item we just put it within that type of format
and then we're doing line breaks so that it's more readable.
And now that that looks like that's all that we have to do so let's refresh and let's try it.
So we'll do a test and we see that we're able to add in items into the list and as we add them they
populate our array.
And if you want to really clean it up you can take that function and nested within the function.
I'm just going to use the beautifier to clean up that code and we see that now.
Refresh it and everything still works the same way.
Everything is still functioning and up and running.
So we've just got that function and we don't have any functions actually sitting globally except for
that one item and that function actually gets initiated from each team else we can't avoid that but
we've got all of this nice and neatly packaged locally within this one function and we know that once
this function finishes then all of these variables they don't have to sit within the global scope.
So if we had a really long application then we would be destroying all of these variables and we wouldn't
have the risk of overwriting and overlapping variable names.
So go ahead and try it for yourself.
And then finally if you didn't do it all locally.
Make sure you make the proper adjustments to your script so that everything is sitting nice and neatly
packaged locally within that one function.